HTTP Service
The Apache HTTP service is often used
during a penetration test, either for
hosting a site, or providing a platform
for downloading files to a victim machine.
The HTTP service is TCP-based and
listens by default on port 80.
To start the HTTP service in Kali, we
can use systemCTL as we did when starting
the SSH service, replacing the service
name with “apache2”.
As with the SSH service, we can verify
that the HTTP service is running and
listening on TCP port 80 with ss and grep.
To have the HTTP service start at boot
time, much like with the SSH service,
we need to explicitly enable it with
systemCTL and its enable option.
Most services in Kali Linux are operated
in much the same way as SSH and HTTP
through their service or init scripts.
To see a table of all available services,
run systemCTL
with the list-unit-files option:
For additional information regarding
service management in Kali Linux,
including the use of systemCTL,
refer to the Kali Training site.